# Essays
<br><b>Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?</b>
<BR> While supervising crisis intervention chats between volunteer counselors and LGBTQ youth nationwide I have witnessed firsthand the powerful impact of good programming and also how traumatic it can be when it doesn’t work. The software that the organization uses is made by another company and has had so many glitches that our services are sometimes unavailable. This has been frustrating, as I see how it affects our users when they are unable to access the support they rely on to keep them safe, but also enlightening as I have worked with the tech team to troubleshoot the issues. Working with the programmers at this company has been one of the most exciting aspects of my work, and seeking to understand not only the root of the problems but also how they are fixed helped me realize I’d rather be solving the issues myself. To learn more, and to expand on my baseline knowledge of MySpace era HTML code,I have been doing CodeAcademy courses and working to understand software issues from the backend as they come up at work. 
<br><br><b>What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years?</b>
<br>In two years, I want to be comfortably uncomfortable. I plant to be doing work that requires I walk into a room not knowing what I’m going to face that day but knowing that I have the foundational knowledge to problem solve, get creative and somehow find a solution. I will be making mistakes, embracing those mistakes and moving forward having learned from those mistakes. I aim to work in a team environment, much like the environment I work in now, where communication and empathy are necessities. Ultimately, my goal in the next two works is to be working somewhere where I am expanding upon the programming skills I learned at Ada so that I can connect them with my social advocacy passions. In the next five years I want to be writing software that improves people’s daily lives – such as LGBTQ youth. There are so many possibilities for online programming to connect people with life changing support that they may otherwise not have access to, and my goal is to be involved in the creative and logistical processes that make this possible.  
<br><br><b>Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?</b>
<br>I landed in Fresno on the last day of a camp for child burn survivors ready to coordinate around 40 pilots flying 65 kids home. I walked into the airport, pulled out my list of pilots, and panicked. One of the pilots on my list, who was assigned to fly three kids home, had cancelled two days prior and in the chaos of nailing down final logistics I had forgotten to remove him from the list. I immediately began to look at the pilots and aircraft I had available to me, who were already assigned to fly that day, to assess how I could move people around. I had to take into consideration weight capacity on their planes as well as the pilots’ routes back to their various home base airports, and then I approached the pilots to ask them to change their plans – which was ultimately asking them to donate more time and money.  If I were to encounter this situation again, I would plan preventatively to have backup pilots available on that day to reach out to in the event of a cancellation or error so that there was a safety net in place to avoid this issue.
<br><br> <b>Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it.</b>
<br>I like Instagram and Facebook, so running social media for Angel Flight West should be relatively easy, right? I thought so, until I realized that developing a voice and presence for a nonprofit organization was very different from developing my own personal online persona. I started by looking through past posts to see what had done well and to figure out the common themes, but historically the social media had been pretty dormant. I then researched online forums for nonprofit social media tactics and read up on everything I could. I signed up for several webinars and nonprofit specific social media courses to learn the best approaches for appealing to our target audiences. I also reached out to people I knew who were experts in the field to get their advice as far as what programs to use and how to engage other people/places/things who could boost our presence. It came down to a lot of trial and error – trying a specific type of post or message and then figuring out why it did or did not work in order to tweak it the next time. 
